# Splunk

1. Search Commands
2. Transforming Commands
3. Filtering Commands
4. Event Processing Commands
5. Reporting Commands
6. Statistical and Machine Learning Commands
    - predicts: Makes predictions based on historical data.
    - kmeans: Clusters events into groups using the k-means algorithm.
    - anomalyDetection: Identifies anomalies in data.
7. Time-based Commands
    - bucket: Divides events into time-based buckets.
    - timewrap: Wraps a time series to visualize periodic patterns.
8. Data Manipulation Commands
    - rename: Renames fields in search results.
    - replace: Replaces field values with other values.
    - fillnull: Replaces null values with a specified value.
9. Utility Commands
    - outoutcsv: Writes search results to a csv file.
    - inputcsv: Reads data from a CSV file.
    - map: Runs a subsearch for event in the main search.

Use cases of splunk

1. IT Operations: Monitoring and troubleshooting infrastructure and applications.
2. Security: Detecting and responding to security incidents.
3. Compliance: Ensuring adherence to regulatory requirements.
4. Business Analytics: Gaining insights into business operations and performance.
5. IoT: Analyzing data from internet of things devices.

Splunk Logs

1. Database Logs
2. Audit Logs
3. Network Logs
4. Security Logs
5. System Logs
6. Application Logs

Splunk is a high performance scalable software server written in c/c++ and python.
It indexes and searches logs and other IT data in real time.
Splunk works with data generated by any application, server or device.
It is big data solution and provides parallelism.
Updated information of the log.
Analyze the logs generated by the system.
Interact with system directory.

Features :

Reporting
Monitoring
Log Analysis
Alerting
Dashboards

Different ways of using splunk